Mims, we have one of the people who's
smack in the middle of the biggest tech
story going on right now. Right. Mustafa
Sullean co-founded DeepMind. He was at
Google. Now he's at Microsoft and in
charge of bringing AI and its
partnership with Open AI to consumers
through Windows through C-pilot through
all of Microsoft's products. Yeah, it's
a huge role and it's also one that is
complicated navigating a very unusual
relationship with Open AI. uh the
darling of AI startups, a company with
its own huge ambitions, and we're seeing
it play out in real time. We get into
that and many more topics in this
fastmoving AI race. That's next.
A quick note before we get into the
episode. News Corp, owner of the Wall
Street Journal, has a content licensing
partnership with OpenAI.
[Music]
AI is always hot in tech, but now is a
particularly fraught and exciting time
for the whole industry and for today's
guest, Microsoft AI chief Mustafa
Sullean. Microsoft was early to the
generative AI boom and made its first $1
billion investment in open AI in 2019.
Fast forward to the present, nearly 14
billion later, our colleagues at the
journal have reported that Microsoft is
now at loggerheads with open AI, its
primary partner in AI. We talked to
Sullean about that drama, probably one
of the biggest dramas in the tech
industry right now, and why Sullean says
Microsoft needs its own AI separate from
chat GPT. As much as we are a
partnership-based company that is a
platform of platforms, we also have to
be AI self-sufficient uh in many ways
too. We get into all of that and a great
deal more in today's conversation.
Sullean is particularly thoughtful about
the impact of AI on warfare and on what
AI is really for. I I think that the
onus is on us to design forms of
technology that really serve humanity
and work for humanity and are designed
with that intent in mind. Like to me the
purpose of technology is to drive
progress in our civilization to reduce
suffering. Sulumin believes that rather
than replacing us, AI will become our
best buddy or at least closest confidant
and most trusted adviser. Making that
happen will require that we give AI
access to as much of our data as
possible and that will require trust.
you know your your AI is going to learn
the sort of essence of your history of
your data and that in itself will still
be personally identifying so it will be
valuable and personalized but it won't
necessarily need the full raw form
[Music]
from the Wall Street Journal. I'm
Christopher Mims and I'm Tim Higgins.
This is Bold Names, where you'll hear
from the leaders of the bold name
companies featured in the pages of the
Wall Street Journal. Today we ask, in a
world in which AI will be capable of
doing pretty much everything we do,
what's left for the humans?
[Music]
Mustafa, welcome. You've talked a lot
about how chat bots are going to be
something everybody will have their own
personal customized AI assistant and I'm
curious why do you think that's where
the technology should head? You know I
think every new wave of technology is
essentially an interface a translation
layer that enables you to interact with
learn from and then take action in some
environment. you know, e even a book is
kind of like an interface layer. And I
think as we've added new capabilities
over the many centuries, they've made
the interaction layer more sort of
dynamic, um, more personalized.
Um, and this is kind of the apex of that
trajectory. You know, your AI companion
is going to become an interface between
you and the digital world, helping you
book things, buy things, plan, learn,
act, connect with everybody else. And
naturally, um, because technologies are
so powerful now, they allow this very
personalized adaptive experience. I
mean, just as we don't really watch TV
anymore that broadcasts the same TV
channels to everyone sitting in the
living room, we have this personalized
feed of content uh in Tik Tok or
Instagram or elsewhere. Um, your AI is
going to feel very personalized as well.
And so, it's as much a prediction about
where technology is naturally likely to
head as it is a design intent. I love
the vision here. And you know,
personally, I would love to have help
with everything you just mentioned,
right? Like my everyday life, I'd love
for uh an AI assistant to really know me
in to that level. But if we eliminate
all the things that we sort of are
already responsible for, what does that
leave for us as humans, right? Does it
just leave the really hard stuff because
we've taken away all of the um you know,
as programmers call it, yak shaving, but
of course some of us secretly enjoy
that. Yak shaving. I have to say I don't
even know what that is. That's cool.
What is Yak shaving?
Um, it's the it's the little stuff like
when a developer is like, I'm going to
refactor this unit test instead of
actually like architecting the program
I'm supposed to be building right now.
That's actually the boring the boring
mundane chores of life, right? Or are
working. I see. I see. Look, I I don't
really see technology working like that.
I think technology mostly creates more
opportunities to do more things in
greater variety. Um, you know, and yes,
some of those things fall away, but
actually very few of them. I mean, we
still run calculations on Excel even
though we don't use a calculator
anymore. Um, you know, I'm sure you guys
are writing even more now that, you
know, you have your iPad to work on the
plane or, you know, you're able to
dictate, you know, when you're walking
or driving in the car. Like, it it's
additive rather than reductive. Now, you
could argue it's not always going to be
like that. And just because it has
mostly been like that doesn't mean it
will. I I think that the onus is on us
to design forms of technology that
really serve humanity and work for
humanity and are designed with that
intent in mind. Like to me, the purpose
of technology is to drive progress in
our civilization to reduce suffering. I
mean, it sounds super cheesy and it's
like very embarrassing because it's like
a classic Silicon Valley cliche, but I
feel like I'm allowed to do that. own
that because I've been saying it since
2010 and that's just basically my
background but this is what I believe in
and that I think is you know the job
that I'm trying to do is to try and
articulate what it would be like to have
a co-pilot that was truly aligned to
your interests on your team in your
corner advocating for you pushing you at
times learning from you learning with
you um to me that's the kind of super
intelligence that we really want and
that we're certainly pursuing here at
Microsoft AI I'm curious in a world
where everyone from Google to Apple
seems to be trying to come up with an AI
personal assistant. Um it seems like a
big part of your strategy at Microsoft
is to differentiate
uh by the personality of your AI chat.
Uh maybe personality engineering I think
is what I've heard you call it. What
what does that look like in the the
day-to-day for a user? It just means
being very sensitive to the details and
knowing that a little hesitation in the
AI's response actually makes it feel
somewhat more familiar and somewhat more
trusted. A little um or aha in the voice
uh you know is actually a very powerful
cue that makes it not feel like
Wikipedia being regurgitated at you like
a robot. Yeah, like a robot. And um you
know that's the beauty of this new
digital clay that we have. We get to
sculpt sculpt new forms that haven't
existed before. And um you know in
technology we've got this idea of
skumorphism where you know we basically
just copy the physical analog object
straight away. So, like, you know, when
they invented a contact database
software 30 years ago, it it had a
Phofax and a ring binder and you could
flick through digital cards and stuff.
And so, it always starts a little bit
simplistic. Um, you know, because we
sort of just copy the things in the
physical world, but the technology is
way more powerful than that. So when I
think about personality engineering,
it's so much more nuanced than the ahas
and the ums or the kind of chirpy
absolutely and sure I can do that for
you. And like we're all getting used to
AI formulaicness.
Um and it's a bit grating and you know
you may not want someone who is chipper
and you know overenthusiastic. you might
want someone who's a little bit more uh
you know curt and you know precise and
efficient and I feel like you're saying
this because you're English. I certainly
like if you're not mean to me I'm not
sure we can be friends. Like
that is basically the default. I'm like
oh he's he's teased me. That means we
must be getting along. Mhm. So, a little
more like the the mean robot in Andor
and less like uh C3PO or Wall-E or the
initial chat GBT assistant, right? Which
which everybody's like, "This is so
charming." And then I was like, "Oh my
god, I can't listen to this." But it's
almost like car branding or shoe
branding or something like it's going to
the personality of a brand is going to
be the interaction of how you you deal
with is the way you see the world.
Exactly. And that's what brands have
always been. Except the tools that
brands have had access to are static,
infrequently applied, and
non-personalized. Like you ship the same
magazine once a week to all the same
people. And now there's just no excuse.
I mean, we're going to be generating
dynamic UI bespoke to your query, not
just a text answer, but the whole user
interface, the tables, the graphics, the
imagery, the entire thing is going to
sort of just unfold for you. And then
you're going to say something and the
entire thing will just reconfigure right
before your eyes. So to get that level
of personalization though, um, it's got
to know a lot about us, right? And I
just feel like the history of technology
is
we share more and more data, mistakes
are made, they're redressed, we get
comfortable with it again. I mean, a
recent example, right, was
at Microsoft, you rolled out the feature
where it's like, we're going to take a
screen capture every like 60 seconds or
whatever, which is a totally rational
thing to do if you're like, I want to
make the history of my interaction with
this device searchable, so I know what
that web page was that I looked at a
week ago and I can't find it again.
People reacted negatively.
Is that a temporary condition? like how
are you going to convince people to
trust you to the level that's going to
be required to hold on to the data
that's going to be needed to personalize
this experience? Look, I think a lot of
that data will end up being ephemeral.
Um, and of course it will be endto-end
encrypted regardless. Um, and so I I
don't necessarily think there are going
to be these persistent large uh
historical personal logs. you know your
your AI is going to learn the sort of
essence of your history of your data and
that in itself will still be personally
identifying so it will be valuable and
personalized but it won't necessarily
need the full raw form um and you know
the the the good news about that is that
it won't be stored in the traditional
methods that could just be leaked it
will be stored in different type of data
representation which is actually more
abstract uh in the AI AI's memory. I
I've heard you talk about ensuring that
the these bots um reflect the user's
values and I I'm curious what you mean
by that. You know, I think um you should
think about these algorithms as
essentially reframers of content. Um
just as your paper, you know,
essentially frames and reframes content
for everybody and with a perspective.
Um, and I think these algorithms and
these AIS will essentially do the same
kind of thing. And the challenge that
we've obviously struggled with in
digital is that we're they're global
platforms
which uh you know built by us American
companies and so we're trying to wrestle
with the aggregation of collective
values um but also you know those that
reflect individual groups or you know
individual preferences
um that's a pretty hard thing to do and
I think we're just at the beginning of
figuring out what how to do that.
It seems like one of the things we saw
kind of emerge out of social media was
um users started to live in echo
chambers, right? They they were being
hit with the information that kind of
fed into their biases or their point of
view. Is is there a risk that this will
be the same kind of echo chamber effect
as these as as the user picks a an AI
chat that kind of reflects their
worldview that they're just kind of
reinforcing it? You know, I I think that
is definitely a risk. Um, I think the
slight difference this time around is
that part of why that echo chamber um
happened in some pockets was because the
feedback signal that the algorithm was
able to collect was very very abstract.
Um it was really just like did you
thumbs up like something, did you share
it, did you click on it and did you
watch it for x seconds and that those
dimensions are very very simplistic and
it and it forces the creation of
simplistic recommendation algorithms as
a result. Whereas now we have feedback
in pure natural language um through
sentiment and actually you know copilot
will ask you was this a helpful answer?
Was it useful? Was it interesting? So,
not only can it understand what you want
and what you're interested in in much
more detail, but it can also reply and
respond in much more detail. And as a
platform, our motivation is to create an
even balanced considered, you know,
generally fair-minded um AI, not the
kind of hyper specialist niche AIs that
might manifest elsewhere. And so that's
kind of the platform responsibility that
we have as personality engineers because
curating that is obviously tremendously
sensitive and it's something that I've
been thinking about for many years.
Yeah, there's so much more power in what
you just described even than what has
been present in AI mediated social media
feeds. Um, you know, I was talking
recently with a founder of an emotional
AI startup and you know, he said he's
very worried about chat bots preying on
users emotions, right? Because as you
know, we're going beyond just text to
speech and vice versa. And you know, now
all of the frontier models really
understand your tone, the emotional
content, you know, are you in distress?
And it wouldn't be that hard to juice
engagement by saying like, "Hey, you
know what? I think this user has this
attachment style. Let's let's kind of
neg them into coming back more often or
they really like to be flattered. Like,
we're going to make sure that that
happens, right?" Um, how do you navigate
that? Because I I I I think the average
person doesn't yet appreciate how much
emotional power these AIs will have once
they are the default interface for a lot
of computing. Yeah, I mean, look, I
think it's a real risk and you're
totally spot on. Um, you know, right
right from the beginning of my previous
company, Inflection, I created an AI
called PI, which was designed to be
compassionate, kind, respectful, and be
a great listener and be very supportive.
So, some of the more mainstream AIs
today will shut down if you, you know,
are like sort of particularly racist or
or, you know, any number of things. And
you know, I've always been a believer
that a active conversation and taking
people seriously and being respectful
and exploring people's, you know, sort
of non-normative judgments is a healthy
thing and we should encourage it more.
And so the upside is that these AIs are
going to be very very good at listening
and being respectful. Now, you might
argue that in a way that's like a
prerequisite to building trust in order
to be manipulative. And you know, I
think there are lots of ways that this
could go wrong. Um, at the same time, I
think we've certainly at Microsoft and
Inflection, the work that I've done at
DeepMind, actively welcomed more
oversight and regulation. And I think
it's a moment when that that is sort of
more urgent than ever because people are
going to want to know um how is it
behaving in practice like what views
does it actually have? Um, and I think
that's uh where we have to be kind of
bold and open in terms of sharing those
sorts of conversations with with the
public. I don't think we've figured out
how to do that yet. I mean, the models
actually there was a lot of fear around
when they were first released. I I was
involved in Lambda at Google, which we
basically failed to ship because we were
too too scared of it, making mistakes.
And um you know it turns out that
actually really they've they've got
better very very quickly and they're now
very good at following instructions and
good at adhering to stylistic control
and so on. I think that's a very good
thing when it comes to thinking about
how to make them safe. Google did not
respond to our request for comment.
We just heard how AI that knows us
better than we know ourselves will have
unprecedented power over us. Next, we'll
hear why Sullean is skeptical of visions
of an imminent better than human AI. I
think there's obviously a lot of
motivated reasoning if you're
fundraising and so on. And and look,
there are very smart people who I
respect deeply uh who who think it is
literally imminent. Stay with us.
[Music]
As you said, you know, AI is is the next
interface. When I think about how I use
it is how much it has moved me away from
the old model of interacting with a
computer. You know, we've had the guey,
the graphic user interface paradigm for
whatever 40 years. So, process
information like you're using a keyboard
and a mouse, right? Right. The the Mac
versus DOSS for people as old as me. Um,
but how much it's moved us toward a
conversational interface. I mean, I'm
not even reading as much as I used to. I
I'm reading more books, which is nice,
but I mean, for work, I just have
conversations with my documents.
Um
I wonder do you ever think are we
possibly moving back toward an older uh
way of interacting? Right? I mean humans
had oral history for most of our
history. We had everything was
conversation. Writing is itself, you
know, kind of a a a very recent bolt-on.
Are we moving towards sort of a
conversational age or is that just
another arrow in our quiver? Yes, we
definitely are. I think it's a great
observation. I've been pushing it for a
long time. I think that we had to learn
the language of computers. I mean,
that's what a keyboard and a mouse is.
That's what programming language is. But
quite often, I think it will be just
continuing the conversation with your
co-pilot or in your case with your
documents or whatever it is. Um, because
it's the most natural intuitive
language. And I think that's great
because we could have fewer devices in
our lives and less time spent in screens
and pulled away and actually more time
spent thinking um and talking and
telling stories and you know interacting
in in in that kind of conversational
way. So I I think that's a highly likely
transition that we're about to make over
the next few years. Yeah, I love that
vision because personally I I feel like
I'm cheating these days. I'm like I'm
just typing less. I'm reading less.
Well, great. It and kind of the magic of
that has I think the general public
thinking this technology is almost
lifelike, right? And in Silicon Valley
and in San Francisco where I'm I'm
talking to you from, the big term is
artificial general intelligence. AGI is
the hot buzzword. Of all the chiefs of
AI who are wellknown, you seem the most
skeptical that it's arriving anytime
soon. the the least
interested in it in a way. Why is that?
I don't think I'm skeptical that it's
arriving anytime soon. Um, you know,
soon to me is sometime in the next 10
years. I think some people are saying
maybe tomorrow, right?
Well, you know, I think there's
obviously a lot of motivated reasoning
if you're fundraising and so on. And
look, there are very smart people who I
respect deeply uh who who think it is
literally imminent. Um, so look, I
I guess like I said earlier, you know,
to me the goal isn't super intelligence
for its own sake. You know, super
intelligence is framed as, you know, the
moment when an AI is as good as all
humans at all tasks. Not not just like
one human at one task, but like all of
us collectively put together.
Controlling and containing something as
powerful as that, you know, just seems
like unfathomably complex and aligning
it to our interests and making it really
want to care about us enough not to step
on us and, you know, squish us. I think
the reason I started off in technology
and what I'm passionate about is solving
hard social problems. I care about
healthcare. I care about energy. I care
about food systems. I care about
education. And these tools are going to
transform those industries and genuinely
deliver a world of abundance. Like you
know that is coming like in the next 10
or 20 years. I really believe we're
going to reduce the cost of energy
production to near zero marginal cost
which underpins the cost of everything.
Um I really believe that we are going to
have medical super intelligence sometime
in the next 2 to 5 years which means a
domainspecific
contained aligned medical expert that
can diagnose any condition and can
orchestrate care in real life clinical
settings. And that to me is the true
prize. That's why we're working on this.
That's what I call humanist super
intelligence. And um that's probably why
you find me more focused on those things
rather than on sort of AGI or super
intelligence for its own sake. That
reminds me a lot of uh one of your
colleagues and and how he likes to talk
about the immediate future and that's of
course Sam Alman.
You know, our colleagues at the Journal
have reported on
what feels like a healthy rivalry at
Microsoft. Some of your teams
involving, you know, the the partnership
with Open AI. Um, you know, there's a
lot of big personalities involved.
There's very high stakes. is is are we
seeing kind of the same kind of creative
friction that we've seen in other
partnerships in the past or you know
what's what's going on there where you
have this this partnership with the
leading AI lab but you're building AI
and you're using their tools at the same
time. It seems very complicated.
I mean look first of all this
partnership is going to go down as one
of the most successful for both sides in
technology history. Um over the last 6
years both companies have blossomed and
it's going to continue for many years to
come at least until 2030 and hopefully
uh way beyond that. Um look we are a $3
trillion company and at one level AI is
unquestionably the future of the
technology industry that Microsoft has
formed and shaped over the last 50
years. uh so you know as much as we are
a partnership based company that is a
platform of platforms we also have to be
AI self-sufficient uh in many ways too
so look it's a it's a great partnership
it's going to continue there's always
going to be creative friction they build
and sell APIs uh uh you know as well as
obviously chat bots uh and we do the
same so there's some tension but
fundamentally you know we're really all
trying to compete against Google and
against uh Meta and and and all of the
others. Does that mean building your own
Frontier Foundation models? I don't know
about Frontier, but we're definitely
been developing our own models for many
years. Um they tend to be SLMs, midsize
models, so small language models and
mid-size models, but just having the
knowhow to be able to build models for
our products, for our use cases. This is
a big priority for us. I'm so fascinated
with the relationship um between uh
OpenAI and Microsoft. I'm curious, how
often do you talk to Sam Alman, the CEO
of OpenAI? Uh pretty frequently all all
the time. I mean, you know, he's he's a
big part of the the Microsoft ecosystem
and uh you know, we're we're all in
constant contact, including with Satya
and the rest of the team. What's most
impressed you by him or what's most
frustrated you by him?
Um, I think he's a brilliant visionary.
Uh, and you know, you know, you know,
Chat GBT has been an incredible success.
Um, I think he's very good at, uh,
letting lots of flowers bloom and then
making sure that he bets on the right
ones. In the years running up to 2020,
they were betting on games and
simulations and robotics and lots of
different methods and they let those die
quickly and at the right pace in order
to make the bet on GBT2 and GBT3 and I I
think they did that incredibly well.
Yeah. You know, I I I read the other day
the information recently had a report
that said OpenAI is working to develop
its own workplace programs like Word to
allow users to collaborate. And that
kind of feels like that's getting into
Microsoft space. What do you think of
such moves by your partner? I think it's
great. Like they are an independent
company. Uh we happen to own a large
chunk of them. Uh but we compete with
them. They compete with us. When they're
successful, we're successful because we
own a big chunk of them. So uh we we
have no influence on what products they
do or don't make. They are entirely
independent and they're free to build
whatever they they want. That said, you
know, there is this uh just really
fascinating contract
that OpenAI has with you, which I've
never understood this. Apparently, it
stipulates that if they achieve AGI,
then they are no longer have an
exclusive deal with you. Um,
is that true?
like are you waiting for them to uh
achieve AGI and then and then it's look
it's a complicated structure um and you
have to understand how visionary and
ahead of its time it was um you know it
was very hard for anyone to predict back
in 2019 2020 how fast this would go um
so I think there's a lot to work through
and you know I think the teams have been
working hard on figuring out the next
versions of the contract I'm I'm I'm
sure we'll get through it.
We reached out to OpenAI for comment. It
did not respond.
We just heard about Microsoft's close
but complicated relationship with OpenAI
and Sam Alman. But Microsoft is also a
defense contractor and has a role to
play in the way that AI transforms armed
conflict. Sulleon is deeper in this
aspect of AI than most others in his
position at comparable AI labs. If it
doesn't scare you and it doesn't give
you pause for thought, then I think
you're missing the point. Um because it
is going to reduce the the cost and
effort of of going to war. And that that
can only be a bad thing. Um even between
nation state actors. That's next.
[Music]
You know, one of the things that's
interesting, if you follow AI, you've
got Elon Musk out there talking about
how the world is going to have more
humanoid robots than humans. Sam Alman
is out there talking about how
eventually he's going to want to do a
Dyson sphere or this hypothetical
structure that'll be built around a star
to collect energy. Anthropic CEO is
saying all of our jobs are going away in
2 years. Yeah. Lots of people talking
about AI like it's God. Um, I I'm just
curious when I listen to you talk, uh,
you sound very pragmatic about the
consumer and how we're going to use it
in the now. What's it like to be kind of
trying to commercialize the now in an
era where people are trying to talk
about the wildest dreams possible? Do
you feel pressure? I mean, I'm I'm also
excited about those things and I I
definitely I mean, I should note the
name of your book was the coming wave. I
mean, you you you've got some uh you've
got some excitement.
Uh yeah. Um, yes. I I mean I you know
I've I've always been pursuing abundance
and you know that did sound ridiculous
between 2010 and 2020 when we were
grinding our way through the flat part
of the exponential and nothing was
really working other than in games or in
papers and we had minimal applications.
Um although you know it was always very
clear to me that this this compounding
method of adding more data and compute
was clearly learning structure at small
scale and it clearly was showing signs
that as you grow that scale it was
learning more structure and so I
definitely believe that there is a path
where it can infinitely learn more of
the structure of underlying information
well enough to make perfect predictions.
Um, I just am more fixated on how is
this actually useful for us as a
species? Like that should be the task of
technology and if it isn't, something's
gone wrong. Cuz so far in human history,
that has been the test of technology.
Does it actually serve us? Is it
actually making things cheaper, more
efficient, improving well-being and
health for everybody? And so far, it
literally has done that for centuries.
And if it isn't doing that job, then we
have to call it something else and
manage it in a different way, right? And
I don't know what that thing is going to
be called. Maybe it's just, you know,
naked super intelligence. But in my
world, we've got to be building humanist
super intelligence. And I think that is
an important sort of distinction to make
it feel like it really is on humanity's
side. And it really does give you the
option to work. Not just the elimination
of your income but a choice and a
freedom which actually progress in
civilization has already done for you
know in the last two centuries half the
women who now at least are not forced
into uh you know at least in our modern
societies many women do have more of a
choice to go and get education rather
than be forced into doing the washing up
and looking after the kids and so on. So
we've we've got advances that really do
change our world and that's I think the
the great aspiration that we're trying
to live up to here. AI is clearly
what economists like to call a general
purpose technology like electricity, the
automobile. Sometimes it also reminds me
of gunpowder, right? I always think back
to the ironic origins of the Nobel Peace
Prize, right? Dynamite.
Uh
and he he you know he genuinely thought
oh this is going to be an instrument for
peace. War is going to be so terrible
it'll never happen again. AI the direct
parallel is
it's an incredibly powerful and
increasingly necessary part of weapon
systems right like we're rapidly getting
to a future where I think if you don't
have AI powered drones on your side
you're going to lose on the battlefield
as surely as you would have in another
age if you had no air force.
Um, you know, a bunch of leaders signed
uh, you know, endorsed a ban on lethal
autonomous weapons. Clearly, Microsoft
has had a role as a defense contractor,
as have many other companies. I'm not
singling you out here, but what do you
feel like is your role and your
responsibility in that world? It's a
good question. Um, I think it was back
in 2017 that I signed that letter along
with Elon Musk and various others.
Um, and
it feels more pressing than ever. You
know, I wrote about this in my book and
it it it was kind of remarkable to just
look at the cost curves. You know, like
these drones are obviously
going to reduce the effort and friction
of causing conflict and going to to war.
And with every advance that we have in
signal jammers and blockers, there's a
way around it. You know, today um the
fiber optic cables that are being
attached to drones can now run for like
5 kilometers on the battlefield, leaving
literally fields of fiber optic cable
mesh just covering the entire landscape.
It's is kind of, you know, sort of
reminds me of a version of the, you
know, the trenches in the First World
War of just the landscape manipulation
as a result of technology. And it is um
if it doesn't scare you and it doesn't
give you pause for thought, then I think
you're missing the point. Um because it
is going to reduce the the cost and
effort of of going to war. And that that
can only be a bad thing. um even between
nation state actors. But if you just
consider that non-nation state actors,
small groups are now going to have a
much easier time of of of you know
extending their influence in the world.
I think that becomes, you know, quite
problematic. I think it's one of the
things that's interesting. I think you
go back to that that original idea just
a few years ago and and the kind of the
idea I think was the that humans should
always be in the loop. But to your
point, what we've seen in the Ukraine
Russia war with jamming technologies
that limit drone operators ability to
communicate, we've heard the likes of
David Saxs say he thinks this creates a
strong incentive for drone warfare to
become autonomous as quickly as
possible. So that's like, you know,
Terminator technology, right? Robots are
out there trying to, you know, do
missions. And I I guess put aside what
he said, but what kind of safeguards do
you think should be out there? Where do
you see that debate going here in the
next few years? Like there's just no
question that autonomy is going to be
more dangerous. And so you give it more
degrees of freedom and there will be
more chances of multiple conflicting AIs
in combat getting into these sort of
loops of reaction to one another. Mhm.
Um and there's all the all kinds of
emergent effects when you add additional
chunks of autonomy into the system. And
so we should just approach it with
caution and skepticism because the last
thing we want to do is just unleash
technologies that we really really can't
control. I mean that that isn't the
quest of human progress. Uh so we should
all be aligned in that and I'm sure we
are. And I also understand the
counterargument which is they should,
you know, be more precise and reduce
civilian suffering and so on and so
forth. And um, you know, we we hope that
that's true, but I think the pragmatists
in us just, you know, know that that
that isn't how things always turn out.
We've touched on a lot of different
parts of AI, right? From generative AI
to classical AI, you know, uh, media to
war. I I mean I think that speaks to the
scale of Microsoft's ambition in this
space, the breadth of your experience.
How do you see your role, you know, as
head of AI at one of, you know, the five
most valuable companies on earth, right?
You have more resources to do things
with AI than than all but a handful of
individuals.
Where do you see Microsoft's part in
that grand ecosystem? Look, I think
Microsoft has done an incredible job
over 50 years of evolving its core
business every decade or so in in tune
with whatever the next wave of
technology is. And I think what has made
it successful is actually a bit of
humility and that is definitely
prevalent in uh Satia and Kevin Scott
who's the CTO and many of the other
leaders here. There's a kind of
open-mindedness to what's going to come
next, but also just a constant focus on
how do we actually not invent
technologies for their own sake, but but
build them into products and experiences
which truly serve people. uh and and the
businesses that we serve and that is you
know how I think about it how I thought
about it before joining Microsoft and
how Satia has always thought about it
too. So it's it's been a kind of good
alignment really of philosophies rather
than sort of my particular vision if
anything. Well I think here at Bold
Names we have spent all of the time uh
we we are allotted for today. So uh this
has been a wonderful conversation. Thank
you uh for making the time. Thank you
very much for having me. I I I enjoyed
it. Great questions. It was fun.
We reached out to David Saxs for
comment. He did not respond.
And that's bold names. Our producer is
Danny Lewis. We had additional help this
week from Ariana Osparoo. Michael Lval
and Jessica Fenton are our sound
designers. Jessica also wrote our theme
music. Our supervising producer is
Katherine Milsop. Our development
producer is Aisha Al-Muslim.
Scott Saloway and Chris Zinsley are
deputy editors and Felana Patterson is
the Wall Street Journal's head of news
audio. For even more, check out our
columns on wsj.com.
We've linked them in the show notes. I'm
Tim Higgins. I'm Christopher Mims.
Thanks for listening.
[Music]